Washington journal continues retired
Major General Major John Newman is a
professor at the University of Maryland
the Honors Program here to talk to us
about JFK and Vietnam and more broadly
the issue of Afghanistan and President
President Obama a couple of weeks ago
david obie of wisconsin was quoted by
the new york times and talking about
these parallels between afghanistan and
envy and vietnam he was quoted as saying
I came here meaning the US House in 1969
and I determined that I would give Nixon
a year to see what he could do because
he had inherited the war so I bit my
tongue for a year he said recounting the
how he reminded the current president of
the mistakes of that earlier war I said
the same thing with with Obama from your
book on JFK and Vietnam what were the
lessons that President Obama should take
from JFK's early experience in getting
the u.s. into Vietnam you hear sometimes
the criticism of comparing Afghanistan
to Vietnam you hear people say this is
not Vietnam that's true in certain ways
but in many more ways it is just like
Vietnam and becoming more like Vietnam
the biggest problems we had early on
worried
a failed government a corrupt central
government we had an army in South
Vietnam that we could not build large
enough to contain the insurgency this is
occurring in Afghanistan now one of
Obama's goals for example is to increase
the Afghan army from about 95,000 to
about a hundred and forty three thousand
by the end of this year if that doesn't
happen that will be a terrible failure
but we could not get them from 150 to
one 170,000 in 1962 in Vietnam an army
that would not fight we have the same
problem our trainers in Afghanistan or
reporting that a lot of the Afghan
troops are not good fighters are not
willing to fight the terrain is very
similar we have here high mountains
terrain we had jungles this is not like
Iraq it's not like Normandy the plains
of Normandy so there are a lot of
similarities but the biggest similarity
and the biggest lesson is
counterinsurgency we are not this is not
set piece battle here we were facing
insurgents who weren't fighting very
well at first in 2002 and three but they
developed a strategy eventually that
that works and when you don't have
enough troops to contain it insurgency
it's a runaway answer and we are fast
approaching that at this time
you're a Vietnam vet yes no no actually
I was in the jungles of Thailand at the
time the war ended on the the
counterinsurgency issue so what's the
parallel there with Vietnam what did we
do right or wrong in Vietnam in terms of
the Vietcong what an insurgency means is
you need a ten to one force ratio to
contain the insurgency so let's just say
there are 10,000 talents oh where does
that figure come from who had many years
of military doctrine some people think
it's larger half of the number must be
there to protect supply lines and cities
and things like that the other half of
the force is available for offense you
never go one to one in offense you go
five to one six to one so you don't
sustain casualties in any event let's
just say there were 10,000 Taliban that
would mean you would need 100,000 a
force that size to contain them there
was a leak to CBS on September 23rd last
year where our commander now a general
McChrystal in his recommendation to the
president actually said we're going to
need 500,000 troops
I've been waiting a long time to hear
that number because I know what it means
and how many bad guys are out there and
how important that is that would mean
that that we're afraid that we're
looking at possibly a force of 50,000 or
so on the last year or two we've seen
some reports coming through the news
media New York Times and other
intelligence organizations the Russians
and and so on saying 10 15,000 even in
that in that range that's too big for
Afghan the Afghan army to handle even if
they can fight and so our job and what I
see a bomber doing which was what JFK
was trying to do which is to train the
Vietnamese how to fight the war and
that's our objective and this surge
isn't to take over the war the surge
appears to me to be the beginning of a
withdrawal which as you know has been
stated 18-month
to begin after this surge has been put
in place to give Karzai in his regime
enough time to stand up an army that can
fight and defend itself we'll see we
have our phone numbers up on the screen
and we'll get the calls momentarily for
for John Newman and the parallels
between JFK and Vietnam and Obama
President Obama and and Afghanistan you
laid out a number of issues which have
to be practical issues which have to be
dealt with but the fact of the matter is
that you bring up Afghanistan you bring
up Vietnam and it becomes a political
issue as well how does the how do you
tell us how you view this as a political
issue how the president can can talk
about this with Congress without it
being so politicized well that's a very
tough thing to do in a war scenario the
lesson that we need to learn I think
from John Kennedy's experience in
Vietnam is this he was withdrawing at
the time he died that was the thesis of
this book is no longer a thesis we have
the declassified documents but he didn't
he didn't tell the truth to the American
people why for political reasons he
wanted to get reelected in 1964 he was
afraid of the right wing he was a
squeaker of an election and 1960 as it
was so he had actually begun they gave
the order to begin the withdrawal in
1963 and these would have been the
trainer's that you talk to me 16,000
advisers not combat troops but my point
is and Obama should not repeat that
experience he's clearly going to do the
best that we can in a given amount of
time but when we face the prospect if
this is what happens in the next year or
two that it's not gonna work we leave
and irrespective of what happens in the
election you tell the American people
straight up what's going on let's hear
from viewers Los Angeles first of Luise
good morning on our Republican line for
John Newman yes I'd like to say Phillips
you're all the wrote a good article
mentioning the Afghanistan war because
and first of all I want to go back to
the 9/11 attack and that's why we're
there 9/11 happened because of our
support for Israel and conveyed on page
147 on the 9/11 Commission report if you
that and it shows what motivated the
9/11 hijackers and there's a video about
it too you can see on neo-cons I'm
Louise Louise forward this to your
question on Afghanistan for Johnny and
then go ahead next up is Becca Becca in
Forestville Maryland on our Democrats
line go ahead I'm a Democrat and I
believe that this war is similar to
Vietnam I agree with mr. Newman to a
point I think that they should really
take these soldiers out because they're
only killing our soldiers pointlessly
and and just suspend any kind of
movement to the United States
I'm gonna guess Afghanistan people make
sure they can't come to the United
States to the previous caller the the
significance of 9/11 is actually
important in this sense unlike Vietnam
we're fighting a war now against
somebody who attacked us that is a
difference between Vietnam and and
what's going on now it's true that the
al Qaeda folks are no longer there there
are very few of them but they're across
the border in Pakistan and if you look
very closely at Obama's campaign
speeches and you look very closely at
the address to West Point just a few
weeks ago he's made it really clear from
the beginning that this is not just
about Afghanistan
this was also about Pakistan and he
couldn't have said it any better than
then during the campaign he said if it
look if Musharraf doesn't do anything we
have actual intelligence we'll do it
what does that does that sort of
statement again the context of Vietnam
does that have echoes of the so called
domino theory well it there's the
difference here is is that this is
another country where the enemy is
actually retreated to it's not just a
sanctuary that's where they are now
they're not going to come out and into
Afghanistan where we can get them that
and that's that's part of the problem
that that's the difference but yes you
have cross-border sanctuaries in
Cambodia and then allow sand and we have
the
here in Pakistan and perhaps even in the
north and Uzbekistan and Tajikistan Karl
Key Largo is next up Florida Gus good
morning independent caller hi today
you're talking in regards to Kennedy's
involvement with Vietnam but can be
inherited that from Eisenhower and Nixon
and now Obama's inherited from Bush and
Cheney I mean what's the parallel there
well there is it is a parallel first of
all John Kennedy refused to put in
combat troops even though Eisenhower
told him to do so during the transition
period and that became the defining
aspect of Kennedy's Vietnam policy not
to do that to to train the South
Vietnamese to fight the war now Obama
inherits a war that's already in combat
mode as opposed to just advisors and so
the the parallel there isn't with
Kennedy the parallels with Nixon who
inherited the war from Johnson and the
the presumption was going into 1969
whether a democrat or republican won
that election we were coming out of
Vietnam but Nixon took four years to do
it another 20,000 soldiers American
soldiers died during the withdrawal so I
I would say they learned the lesson
there is look when it's time to come
home
don't take four or five years to do it
and lose another five ten fifteen
thousand soldiers here's a Tony from a
luckier Michigan on our Republican line
go ahead yes Christian you compared
Vietnam I was around that time - I'm an
idiot just some young kid just listen
you I you compare it to you like what
happened in 9/11 Vietnam we didn't get
bombed in the United States from the
north viennese did we and other things
you have majority of flower child up
there painting their faces and
protesting and everything else there's a
lot of difference between that now now
if you've got the most majority people
united states are backing up in 9/11 to
go over there and and - and plus you
don't have you can bomb anywhere in
Afghanistan you couldn't do that and
including goes North Korean bomb I mean
or Vietnam could bomb in time
beginning in the war it was not until
later thank you Tony yeah the caller has
a good point and that's why I think of
all the factors of similarities or
differences between Vietnam and and
Afghanistan the fact that those were the
people who attacked us gave us a moral
right whether you agree with war or not
to go after those people but that didn't
last very long the moment we attacked
Iraq which did not attack us it took our
eye off the ball took our resources away
and really undercut our standing in the
world whether we're talking about Muslim
countries or other countries so what
should have been finished the job that
should have been finished in 2005 2006
in Afghanistan was not and then it came
back again have a comment from James
twitter.com writes it's looking more and
more like a war to deny safe havens to
terrorists is futile what other
interests are we fighting for well what
I know of President Obama's statements
about this is that the greatest threat
this is the president speaking to our
security is in those sanctuaries in a
western Pakistan and that's I that's
what I think we're going to see in the
next year or two we're not talking about
Pakistan very much right now in the
media but if the president is true to
his word that's going to be news when
they with this uptick in in troops know
that he announced that at West Point at
some point 2011 some say there there's
going to be the consideration of a
drawdown from of forces from Afghanistan
what do you looking ahead what do you
think that looks like well there's been
some debate within the administration
about the timetable Obama specifically
mentioned 18 months in other words after
the surge is in place 18 months
downstream we begin bringing the troops
out of Secretary of Defense gates said
that we should have he thinks that that
date could be adjusted and so on but the
the the stated policy is clear we're
going to increase the the force we're
going to help root out the Taliban and
try and stand up an Afghan army and then
we're coming home that's the policy as
stated by the president here's a
Cumberland Maryland good morning John
Democrat
color good morning dr. Newman
I was just wondering with respect to the
Vietnam situation there was an aspect of
deception of in a Pentagon with respect
to the reports on the performance of the
advisors and the progress of the war and
the status of the fighting ability of
the Vietnamese army and just the
affection rates and I was just wondering
what what do you see or if anything with
respect to possible deception of between
branches of government and the formation
of policy with regard to Afghanistan
today well it's a terribly important
lesson there was as I mentioned in the
book an extended period of not just a
little bit of deception to whole cloth
lies about the size of the enemy in this
case the Vietcong and combat operations
going on in in in the field we saw
something akin to that your previous
guest talked about it in the last
administration the Iraq study group and
the Pentagon the talking points from the
vice president's office and so I'm not
exact parallel but the same sort of
hijacking the intelligence process that
really undercuts the ability of a nation
to actually marshal the national
resources necessary to meet national
objectives if we don't know or
understand what the truth is it's early
in the administration I hope we don't
see a repeat of anything like that again
why had President Kennedy decided to
withdraw advisors trainers from Vietnam
he'd made a pre-emptive decision that we
would not fight that war with our combat
troops that only leaves two options you
either train the South Vietnamese to do
it or you get out
and so as McNamara said in in in his the
McNamara papers when the training
session is over when the class is over
the student has learned what the student
can learn and that's over we come on
next is Jacksonville Florida good
morning James on our Republican line go
ahead
comparing what I believe I've been
picking up on the the Vietnamese war was
more of a political war and
this particular thing going on now is
getting into where it's not just a
religious war on their side I believe we
have people in this country thinking of
it as a religious manner - I've spoken
to people about those maybe getting out
of there and back and off on supporting
the Jewish or Israel and they keep
pulling things out of the Bible that
says we're supposed to be backing up
Israel that's as bad as the Muslims with
the Koran was there Ellen ever an
element of religion in the Vietnam War
well it's a point of dissimilarity
actually when you when you look at it
very closely because 95 percent of South
Vietnamese people were Buddhists we have
here of the Shia and the Sunni conflict
and that is present here in Afghanistan
about 10 percent of the population the
Hazara are are Shiite and the Taliban
are Sunnis as opposed Sunni group that
is really the child the creature of the
ISI in Pakistan and surrounded by Sunnis
so they're going to get support so
there's that image but there's it's not
just religious as an ethnic breakdown -
45 % Pashtuns 25 percent Tajiks from the
north 25% of the population of the guest
Afghanistan or Tajiks then you have
who's Bexon Turkmen so you have the
demographics are much different
there are 95% kin or Viet in Vietnam and
we have here four significant different
ethnic groups that have tribal
differences that go well back into time
so it's a much more complicated
situation in Afghanistan than it was in
Vietnam on that level what do you think
that what do you think al-qaida has
learned from our experience in Vietnam
the u.s. experience there well gorilla
guerrilla warfare for one thing
especially in there the know that that
that we could but how to fight insert as
insurgency and they weren't doing very
well actually in the first years 2001
2002 there are a bit heady after the
defeat of the Soviet Union but they they
perfected a way to do it in about two
in 2005 that is to attack in groups of
50 or 100 and immediately after the
attack break up to the small groups of
five so that any type of
counter-offensive afterwards is not
going to net a lot of a lot of
casualties so they've been learning as
they go in this war and the u.s. did
they have a role in that in terms of you
talked about the the fighting the
Soviets at some point did we have CIA
trainer's to the moon we should lose you
Dean training them on how on these
tactics oh we wished we had but the
Pakistanis would not allow that
everything had to go through Pakistan's
ISI we provided the money we had a lot
of CIA people in Pakistan maybe some
some agents who got in but we did we had
very little control over what actually
happened on the ground during that war
next up it is Asheville North Carolina
good morning to Jay on our independence
line go ahead good morning I have a
couple comments and I have a question
for the guest I personally think the
Karzai administration is hand-in-hand
with a great many segments of the
Taliban I think they have to be I mean
obviously the Karzai government is a
cesspool of corruption and aptitude but
now that the Taliban and al-qaeda know
that we're leaving in 18 months I really
think all we've done is send over 30,000
bull's-eyes and they'll die for no
purpose really whatsoever I would like
your guests opinion on one thing since
the Taliban uses opium and the traffic
in opium what not for a primary source
of income why don't we buy the opium
crop I don't think the farmers care what
happens to it they don't grow heroin
they grow opium if we bought it with the
Taliban not be deprived of a good source
of cash and I'll take my answer off the
air thank you
yeah I'm not really certain what the
economic impact would be it might be
useful to divide to deny cash to the
Taliban of course but the picture might
be a little more complex than that
but with respect to the first
comment about sending the the
bull's-eyes there I understand that and
I really feel for the soldiers that are
over there the night before last my son
returned from the third Brigade 10th
Mountain Division they were the
spearhead of the search and he's been
there for two tours we were very happy
to have him home safe and sound
but I think you can't expect Obama on
his first day of taking office is simply
cut and run he took a long time to
review the policy and he got a lot of
heat for that yeah and I think it was
the right thing to do took Kennedy a
year to decide what he wanted to do
before he drew the line in the sand no
combat troops advisers only that was in
November of 61 did he uptake the number
of advisers there yes significantly from
800 to 16,000 but no combat troops it
was a vigorous debate that took a year
first year of his administration and so
Obama here has taken you know not that
much but but a few months to review this
strategy and it's one where I understand
what the caller said we're not going to
get out of there tomorrow morning but as
stated at least as I understand it now
our policy is to bring the troops home
after this surge I want to get your
reaction to a weekend editorial by James
J Kerr Fano from the Heritage Foundation
published over the weekend Obama must
win fast in Afghanistan a risk new Wars
across the globe he writes there is
little chance of Kabul will become
Saigon 1968 if the war in Afghanistan
starts going south for Allied forces
President Obama will probably quit
rather than risk getting bogged down
he writes that President Johnson
considered Vietnam more a distraction
than a national mission yet he ramped up
the troop commitment all the same in
1968 the North Vietnamese launched a
major offensive during the Tet holiday
they lost that battle badly but the fact
that they were able to mount a
large-scale offensive gave many
Americans including Walter Cronkite the
impression that the war wasn't winnable
as the u.s. is bogged down it became the
common view Johnson's presidency fell to
ashes yes and that is exactly the
problem here we cannot win this
militarily unless what McChrystal said
and I think that his view was he knows
we're not going to get 500,000 troops up
up there's the mere fact that he said it
means he understands that this is not a
military militarily winnable
situation it's an insurgency of any
significance greater than ten twenty
thirty thousand troops is something
we're just we don't have the national
resources to go fight
you said you welcome your son home back
from this is his second tour with your
opinion your views on that how hard is
it to take to here his his take on
Afghanistan he certainly must retain a
fair amount of optimism on things
yeah well it's very interesting you
asked that question
he and his and his colleagues in the
third Brigade of the tenth Mountain
Division really have their the toughest
time for them is is is to be very
careful in the use of military force
they're very aware of the local
population and the Taliban are always
hiding they'll shoot and then we'll go
hide amongst the kids and so that it's a
it's a it's a tough place to be and when
your your colleagues or taking rounds
and then the people shooting or hiding
amongst the kids so our our troops up
there are keenly aware of the of the
nature of this war you know terribly
important is that they act honorably up
there any chance they'll be going back
he's actually getting out of the army
he's been in six years but he he did to
tourism bakers and gap in Georgia good
morning to Brenda on a Republican law
good morning
I'd like to take you back in history a
little bit with the Afghanistan all the
way back to when British when the
British wasn't that was in Afghanistan
when Russia came into Afghanistan all
these countries got together was trying
to get a hope to the oil in Afghanistan
and then it came about that Hussein was
one of the biggest ones that come into
power during this time and they did all
of this trying to get a hope to the oil
so the United States people need to stop
and say yes this was about all to keep
it out of the hands of these countries
that wanted to get that all so they need
to be thankful to George Bush that he
had the guts and the sense to get rid of
Hussein and his murderers and to put
their
put the series of directed people or put
them shears that that they can live
today in peace without these murderers
Brenda thanks for the call well I would
just say this humbly that if going to
war in a country is is the intent of the
president you put that before the
American people and and and have that
discussion but you don't tell them that
they have weapons of mass destruction
they're going to use next week or that
they were behind 9/11 to do it have a
email for you from a Vietnam vet Barry
Constantine from New Jersey writes
consider consider that the login your
deal in combat with an insurgency the
more you educate the insurgents and the
more the US people tire of the event I
thought Colin Powell had it right only
go in with overwhelming force yeah it's
he's so right and in that sense once we
reach that sort of tipping point the
longer we stay the more people died the
worse it gets you have to have the
courage the political courage to come
out when the there's just no way to win
and to the best of your information and
knowledge the size you thought of the
al-qaeda forces in Afghanistan let's
combine al-qaeda and Taliban the size of
the force the US and NATO is facing
there
I've been waiting you know month after
month and I've watched a lot of
reporters in your line of business ask
questions and press conferences and over
and over again officials not giving us
numbers but what I've seen now is
figures like 10,000 15,000 in in that
range and and if you look at Obama's
plan to increase the force to 140 plus
by the end of the year that tells me
about 14 15,000 what they're trying to
plan for here's Elkhart Indiana good
morning bill Democratic caller yes I was
calling about my question is is it this
so-called war these days isn't it Kara
the certainty of it is moving toward the
same type of law war Vietnam was I mean
you know I hear in some cases that they
are throwing around on the table
euthanasia
I mean will sister does CEO giraffe
that's gonna come back possibly because
I mean at all
you're not getting the support from the
soldiers to help Garin saying soldiers
and what you're saying is that they're
not training right you know they're not
I mean it's not up to snuff and you know
it seems like to me you know at this
point you know you're going to start
looking at things from all angles
because you just said thirty thousand
troops over there well thanks for the
comment so what you've responded yeah I
think that he's right there there are
those similarities we talked about them
already today and and the the insurgency
is growing so and that happened back in
Vietnam to so yes those those are
definitely similarities about ten more
minutes with John Newman former major in
the US Army 21 years in army
intelligence and the book he wrote in
1992 he said it was released JFK and
Vietnam by John John Newman is it going
to be republish work and folks buy it
online or they can get it online but
right now I own the rights to it and
when I decide to update it than do it
again
here's a Raleigh North Carolina good
morning on our Republican line yes
Raleigh you're on the air go ahead
question I'm Air Force veteran however I
did not end up in Afghanistan at any
point and my question was more about the
nature of the terrain and I wonder if
you had anything to comment about the
differences of terrain between
Afghanistan and Vietnam and sort of I
agree with earlier comment by Tolan
Powell that we should have came in to
Afghanistan with overwhelming force and
I was just wondering kind of how that
would play out if you know if given the
second chance
alright on the train good question it's
different but similar in the sense that
it's
it's it's terrible three whether we're
talking about the dense jungles and
marshes of Vietnam it's not the type of
place you can send the tank into an
armored personnel carrier very easily
and neither are the gorges and ridges in
Afghanistan so in both instances is very
difficult terrain the Soviet helicopters
had a hard time as you might know it
being Air Force even flying at that
altitude ours are doing a little better
than the Soviets ones did about general
Powell's idea of coming in with
overwhelming force the initial surge
into Afghanistan was very successful and
that's the problem we should have sent
more in at the time we had him on the
ropes through only less than a thousand
left and little small pockets and
enclaves and we just never finished the
job and we should have because now
they're back in spades
we're back again and so I would agree
that we should have we should have made
the decision to go in with more
resources than we did but we didn't
because we were fighting a much larger
war next door in Iraq a viewer who
disagrees with your point I really
disagree with your guest Vietnam is a
place a defined area Afghanistan is
progressing to a training ground for
radicals that go to all corners of the
world and carry out their intent as much
as I don't like our loved ones fighting
these radicals in a country that looks
like our country in frontier days there
is an argument to keep radicals
minimalized as much as possible my
question is why doesn't the rest of the
world see the potential peril for them
to if they don't get in the defense of
world peace well there are 40 countries
that are participating in the
international security forces in there
now maybe not as much as we would like
to see in terms of a commitment of
troops but there are 40 countries and
involved in this war right now and have
been for the for the last 10 years but I
agree with the caller and I don't think
anything I said would disagree with that
yellow Vietnam was a place it was not a
training ground for communist insurgents
all over the world to come to and that
is an aspect here that we're very
worried about just north of Afghanistan
we have lose Beca stand Turkmenistan and
Tajikistan these countries are ruled by
very repressive regimes the Russians
left in place to preserve their power
and influence and we're in bed with them
because we want those supply
they're critical to us but it's a
breeding ground for al-qaeda the Central
Asian countries and and more than ever
in 2008 foreign fighters jihadis were
coming into Afghanistan to support the
Taliban say leave the collars right this
is a problem getting worse
couple more calls here for John Newman
we'll hear next from Cambridge
Massachusetts and Philip and Philip
there you are on the independent line go
ahead Cambridge you're on the air
yes I would like to give some credence
to the ratio of ten to one debated
earlier on what it takes to take care of
a guerilla war when I was a young
officer in the French army in Algeria we
were about 50,000 we were fishing about
50,000 silica and we had half a million
troops there in spite of the colonial
empire dominance of Algeria for decades
we knew very well what was going on and
we lost so as a US citizen now I'm
extremely concerned that we are not
putting enough power behind the world
and the answer the possible outcome is
total failure thank you thanks for that
comment yeah the point I made at the
beginning of the show that's the number
I watch for every day how many bad guys
are there out there and there comes a
point when you know that the Afghan army
cannot grow to the point to defend
themselves there is it's pointless to
stay did the senior community the the
military General Petraeus and and
McChrystal Odierno are they all pretty
much Vietnam veterans I do not know I
would assume so is there outside of some
of the things you've talked already or
there's specific sort of individual
command decisions that were made in
Vietnam that that commanders in
Afghanistan should take away to do
differently than and then we didn't
Vietnam you know I'm not sure about that
I know I agree I disagree with some of
the things that general Westmoreland did
in terms of reporting intelligence to
the president and the public but I think
that that
in one sense I agree with them that a
lot of the decisions were made by the
political leaders and in particular in
Vietnam was to go in with combat troops
because we thought the sino-soviet
conflict was such a China would not
cooperate and give their rail lines to
the Soviet Union and that didn't turn
out to be true so we ended up in a
stalemate we could not win and we didn't
want to withdraw and so that was a
political decision made by the National
leadership and Obama needs to and I
think he is trying to avoid getting into
such a similar stalemate in Afghanistan
got one more call for Lowell
Massachusetts
Danielle go ahead on our Democrats line
hi I just wanted to add some thoughts to
the mix which is that well from my own
experience I opposed the war in Vietnam
and probably attended almost every
demonstration in New York City at the
time but after that I travelled overland
to India on a spiritual journey and
spent some time in Afghanistan when
women were still doctors and teachers
was the tail-end of 40 years of peace
there and you know one of the elements
is that you're not seemed not to be
aware of is that the Taliban only has a
four to five percent approval rating in
Afghanistan they saw what was happening
there I followed it events there since
then you know in the 80s we should not
have left and we left in a terrible
situation and so we cannot repeat it
again because if we do there'll be a lot
of death in in Afghanistan and so there
is the way that our Bhama is doing this
is very different than Bush who left the
situation and benign neglect similar to
what his father did and the people are
the are people we're trying to get in
more civilians more
agriculture and I think it's been a
totally exaggerated about the government
there while cars cars I had to survive
while he was being neglected he is a
Pashtun and however he's a peaceful one
with the history as his family three
hundred years of his father was a
parliamentarian his family he is not
this and he himself is not pocketing
money or whatever Daniel we're gonna let
it go there and let the John Newman no
reply thank you for your call yeah I
know we're short on time it's a it is
crucial I in fact my son talked to me
about it all the time how important it
is and the soldiers know that to treat
the local population well and to do as
much as they can a lot of their medics
we're treating kids from the villages
that we're getting hurt by these mortars
coming in from the Taliban who couldn't
shoot them very well but yeah and and we
are expanding considerably the the
civilian effort how does that parallel
with Vietnam the civilian State well it
wasn't so good at first and it got a
little better later on but yeah we
suffered in the early years of the war
for not having paid attention to that
John Newman professor at the University
of Maryland teaches courses in Soviet
Chinese and East Asian history and
politics this is the book JFK and
Vietnam deception intrigue and the
struggle for power and folks can try to
track it down online I guess huh yep
thanks for being with us this morning we
she ater
that'll about do it for Washington
Journal this morning we'll be back
tomorrow morning same time 7:00 a.m.
Eastern for your calls and comments we
hope you have a great day see you then